The next thing here is the life cycles and
the life cycles are they're useful for
a number of things.
Basically, you might we already showed
that you could just run something in
the component body so why would you
bother with onMount or Whatnot.
Sometimes though you wanna wait
until after the DOM has loaded
before you start something so it's
a good place to like measure the DOM or
use your references but
yeah I mean the simplest example of
using onMount although we'll
show later a better way to do
this is you could use it maybe
to load some data, right?
We could maybe make an async
function that fetches from an API.
And We, in our case,
we're gonna fetch some photos.
And then all we have to do
is when we get our response,
we just set the JSON to our signal and
we should be good and
let me just grab the URL for this grab
20 items from the placeholder API.
And yes, it's a bunch of lovely,
lovely images.
But as you can see async it's
fairly easy in this kinda scenario.
And what's cool about a reactive library
like Solid obviously is when you do
that fetch, and
you sent that signal, it's not like,
again, the componentry renders or
anything and literally just went,
now there's photos in this list,
create these DOM elements.
So it's kinda like a pause,
like he can render the outside and
then continue on as the data resolves.
onCleanup is something that we've been
avoiding in all our demos so far, but
it's actually important because sometimes,
if you set an interval at the top of
your component and it unmounts you
actually want that interval to go away.
As powerful as this is we
still need to be able to
potentially clean up after ourselves.
So.
What's powerful here is
something you can do top level.
So I made a timer.
We can ensure that even with our counter,
that when this cleans up,
that we're going to actually call this,
right?
When it, because if you think about it,
these are all nested effects.
So it's the same rules again.
So if I put this inside an effect,
let's say, let's create effect.
We could, we can also.
I can also do the same thing To close
here, right?
And playground is not
having fun with me today.
All right did I put an extra bracket
somewhere that's probably it
Can I just copy this code and
then I'm gonna refresh the whole page.
Create effects not defined
obviously hear we go.
Okay.
This is just what I was
trying to demonstrate here
because we if we console if we just kinda.
Again, I don't know why you would wanna do
this exact thing that
I'm gonna do right now,
but if we wanted to console.log("Cleanup") and
literally rerun this thing,
Every single, every single time like say
the count changed which
is kinda crazy main.tsx.
I'm missing a semicolon.
Thank you.
This is why live coding
is always the best.
All right,
cuz I didn't close my effect, right?
Like if we wanted to do something
silly like listen to count in here.
This is gonna stay zero now.
But essentially, every time we update
count it should run our cleanup function.
Alright.
See, clean up, clean up, clean up,
or it's actually counting up.
Yes.
So just froze.
So you actually see cleanup also,
logging down there in the console,
every single run.
So we can clean up both at a effect
level scope and a component level scope.